Dedicated to Eliza
Francis. Joel and Luca.
MATTHIAS AND MAXIME
So Sarah? She's not coming?
No. She's seeing friends.
Or they're going to a restaurant.
or a sauna.
Did you two have a fight?
Why do you think that? Everything's great.
Oh. man.
I forgot to tell you - Rivette apologizes
but his sister will be there too.
Damn it. Doesn't he know that
we can't stand her?
She'll be busy. She has to do this
short film. For an assignment.
It won't hurt her.
It's a pain in the ass.
Rivette promised
She won't bother us.
We got our business. she has her own.
We're not even gonna see her.
GIVE US THIS DAY OUR DAILY BREAD.
BAKED GOODS
"HOLY FAMILY."
- Finally.
- What took you guys so long?
How was your trip?
- What's the difference? We're here.
Or should we give you the details?
- Wait.
- Matt. my sister's here.
I guess you're happier than I am.
- Very happy.
- She's out somewhere with Matisse. her friend.
The trees taking off and all that nonsense.
- Oh Heaven.
- Great!
- Hi!
- We've traveled hundreds of miles
to sit in the kitchen all day?
- They just got here.
let him catch his breath.
- What's it like?
- Yes. as usual.
- Okay. let's go. The sun's going down.
- Are you kidding me?
- Why? I said something.
- Frank.
- At this rate I won't make it till dinner.
- Max? Max!
- Brass.
- What?
- Calm down.
- What? Oh. yeah. I forgot. Sorry.
- Max. it's no big deal.
- It's just weed.
- You never listen to what you're told.
- His head's empty.
- Or you just don't care.
- How nice it is to be with friends!
- Poor Brass. he misses love.
- Why do you have to be on me all the time?
- I'm tired of it!
- Go. you know where!
- All right. stop. let me go!
- Don't touch me!
That's enough. I said!
- Okay. let's get out of here.
- Let's go swimming!
- I'll go too.
- Sorry. guys.
- Well. it's started.
- Damn. I don't even know how to say this.
My friends were supposed to come
to appear in the film -
but at the last minute I got a package!
- So. First course: native language.
In the young fool's version.
- Well. not everyone can talk like a faggot!
- All right. they're not coming.
your friends. So what?
- I owed them. like.
remove.
- O Heaven.
- Matt.
- I mean. like. I need
just two guys to replace them.
- Nobody wants to try?
- Don't even ask.
- "Like. like" in your film school...
they're all tongue-tied?
- Get out of here. you nerd!
- You promised Mom
that you won't be in the way!
Leave my friends alone. Erika!
- Don't scream! Let them decide!
- Hey Hey!
- I agree.
- What?
- I have no problem being in your movie.
- Oh. my God. thank you! I've always said that.
that Max is a treasure.
- Okay. leave me alone.
- But I need two people.
- I'm gonna kill you. You want this?
- Matt?
- Absolutely not.
- Ask Brass. No. ask Frank better!
- Yes. Frank!
- Super.
- Okay. But seriously. guys.
If you want to fit in. give me a shout.
Don't be shy.
- Twenty-four thousand a year. for
to talk like an idiot
and post the food on instagram.
- Are you sick?
- What? At school you acted
in "Anna Karenina."
- There's the donkey. Tell him to shut up.
- What? It was very exciting.
- You sobbed so naturally.
- In his second year he cried
with a Parisian accent.
- Elephant. the first time
who's seen flossing!
- Now I'm going to drown.
- Let him go!
- You like it when
I'm gonna get you like that. huh?
- Get off me!
- Close your eyes and think
to your professor!
- Shut up!
- To that old man!
- Your mother is so fat
breaking out of Chicken Nuggets!
- And your mother is so fat
that McDonalds is served in three cash desks at once!
- It's unlikely he'll be back for the first Christmas.
- Really?
- So you're not gonna be here all year?
- Yes. I will.
- What about your mother?
- Aunt Ginette will take care of her.
We already went to a public notary.
She'll be his keeper in my place.
I'm not the only one in my family.
in the end.
And it's easy -
you have to pay the bills.
buy products. be careful
that there's no cash around.
Any fool can do that.
- Well. are you ready for a close-up?
- What?
- Ready for a close-up?
- Yes. sir. I'm ready.
- Of course you can.
This is also a Commonwealth country
like Canada. visas are not necessary there.
- I see.
- Are you gonna be a bartender again?
- Some documents
are still needed.
Who's gonna take a stranger off the street?
- That's why I need
a letter of recommendation from your father.
- I'm doing everything I can.
it's not my fault he's busy.
- Wait. I don't understand one thing.
You're not volunteering.
but to make money.
- You mean that there
Visa cards are not accepted.
- What?
- He's joking.
- So. Max?
- Yeah. I'll be a bartender.
That's for the first
time.  Work is familiar.
- You'll go to the devil's horns in Melbourne
to stand behind the counter again?
- Transfer two hundred thousand and it will be
your new neighbor in Cambridge.
- No. it's not a problem. really.
I'll work at the bar to start.
and then I'll start slowly
looking for my. my...
- Vocation.
- Matt as always has this need
to shove the word right down your throat.
- "Vocation."
- Yeah. fuck you.
- You're still a kid when you do that.
- That's right.
- I beg your pardon?
- It's true. It's your favorite pastime.
- Why. I never do that.
- What? Matt you're crazy.
- I don't understand.
what you're saying.
- We're saying this is your vice.
- What vice?
All right. maybe I've done this a couple of times.
three or four at most!
- Yes. just a month ago
at Susie's birthday party!
I lit the candles and you
you stuck to my words.
- Brass even got him on the phone!
- I don't know. I don't remember.
- Well. yeah. it's somewhere on Instagram.
- Yes? Interesting. show me.
- Yeah. I'll show you.
- Come on.
- Did you hear that? Sounds like somebody's here?
- Probably Sharif.
- I said it was time to light the cake.
And you said I'm not setting fire to the cake.
but to candles
like I'm illiterate.
- That's right. but I didn't say that.
- You did the same thing at the gym.
- What?
- And what did I say?
- Long live the Sharif of Nottingham!
- Sharif of Nottingham!
- Well. how are they
my favorite sons of bitches?
- On our taxes you buy
trendy clothes!
- While you write your stupid diploma.
people are busy.
- I assembled a car myself.
so he could go to school.
- What are you guys talking about?
What taxpayers argue about
on a quiet evening in nature?
- What are you? A talk show host?
- Aren't you high?
- No. But who knows?
So what are you guys talking about?
- Oh. nothing.
- About the fact that Matt always wants
be a know-it-all.
- That's not true.
He said I corrected him once
during a conversation.
- Bless my soul.
Matt you're a grammar-nazi.
It's a classic.
You're absolutely right. Rivette.
- Tell me something. hipsters are forced to eat.
like a pig?
- And yet on the table with these feet so clean.
- Exactly.
- Why are you guys doing this?
- I warn you: I'm in dangerous proximity
of the incriminating video.
- Yeah. yeah. yeah.
- Guys. guys. What's that smell?
- What are you talking about?
- What? What?
- I can't hear anything.
- Only the smell
of Matt losing in the argument.
- But what are they? The defendant?
- Stop. stop! I found it! This is the best
day of my life.
If I'm right...
- You'll get nothing.
- Well. no. they're for punishment.
- Are you 100% sure you didn't say it?
- Yes. 100% safe
but I won't argue.
- Not necessarily for the money.
- What's the topic? Rivette said something
and Matt corrected it?
- Yeah.
- Guys. I still owe
pay off my college debt.
- I know what we can consider as punishment.
- Fuck you. dummy.
- Bet on your Dupont.
- This is not a Dupont.
- It doesn't matter because I don't bet
on the lighter. my father gave it to me.
- You don't even smoke.
- I support the company.
- Give a hand to friends who
celebrate birthdays.
- All right. go to hell. let's hear it!
- I knew you'd agree.
But I'm not saying what we're betting on.
- Look. you don't do that.
- You won't suffer financially or physically.
- We're not gonna throw you in the lake. believe me.
- Tell me about it. Rivette.
- Come on. if you're right. calm down.
- "Your punishment should be
stricter"
- "What's the next step
of your brilliant plan?"
- "The plane crashed
we're all gonna die!"
- All right. Matt. you have to promise that you will execute
the bet.
- It's not scary.
- I'm gonna win anyway. I know I didn't say that.
Not that time.
- You didn't say? Okay.
- All right. I'll light the cake.
- Not the cake. the candles on the cake.
- Hurray. Great you got it back!
- Okay. you win. What do I have to do?
- You have to be in Erica's movie.
- That's great.
- Excuse me. Did I hear that right?
- Yes. he was a fool.
- He said he's filming us
in his stupid short film.
- Well. why do you have to be stupid?
- Then what?
- Sorry. guys.
have you ever kissed before?
- While washing dishes? No no
- Okay. I'm serious.
- No. of course you're not.
- No. I'm not...
- Well. maybe. Once.
- What?
- During the last year. Or before.
- No.
- Okay.
- Because you're gonna have to do it soon.
In your movie scene.
There are two guys in love in the story.
- You're such an idiot. Marco!
Why are you stalking me?
- I'm not humoring you. Erica! You're just making us
pissed off with your stupid ideas!
No. the idea is normal
only it was necessary to warn you first.
- He lost the bet!
- Yeah. Matt. it's not good to lose.
- That's not the point. That's not the point.
- Listen!
- It didn't occur to you that...
- So what? Who cares?
You're always braiding each other's hair.
and making jerks on the floor!
I mean. don't worry
Calm down. guys!
- "Oh. don't worry."
- "Take it easy. guys."
- Shut up. donkeys.
- Why didn't you tell us anything?
- What would it change? Calm down!
- Damn. so you can talk
in normal language!
- Yes. thank you! So what's the difference? Huh?
Well?
- No. don't think about it. normally
it wouldn't be a problem.
- That's not the point.
- Besides. we already kissed once.
- Stop it. what are you talking about?
- What?
- It's true. I remember too. At the party at home
of Carine Mercier.
- Frank. you're a peeping Tom!
- Then I took three pills
of ecstasy. and I was impressed.
- Okay. I get it! I'll do it.
if you're so impatient!
- Ma che cavolo?
- Matt?
- When you're dumb.
- Oh. that's nice.
I could fucking die right now!
- Do I have to wear this?
- Yes. you do. It's necessary for contrast.
- And this Vegeta
will she stay here?
- What vegeta?
- Your stupid Dragonball.
- Is that the HBO show?
- Okay. forget it. He can't stay there.
You can finish minding your own business
upstairs?
- Well. your creation.
- Oh. Mine. Oh. God. All right.
What you need to know. This movie...
is super impressionist but. at the same time.
expressionist.
You understand. don't you?
- I'm certainly not an expert. but in my opinion.
impressionism and expressionism
are mutually exclusive.
Aren't they?
- Okay. then I'll explain
the plot of the movie.
Then there are two women...
or two men. it doesn't matter
who are sitting next to each other and all of a sudden - bang!
Kiss. That is
such a natural thing.
- I know you care and all. of course.
I don't want to dampen your spirits.
but we're still two guys.
- Lord. what a little gem you are.
Okay. it's a small ambush. because
your generation has visions
so backward.
But I personally. for example. feel
not to stick me on a label.
From the outside - yes. there is a difference.
but if you don't consider the beard and all
this male bullshit. how can you tell?
- Really? They kissed in high school?
- Classic. huh?
- I don't know. it seems like Matt's already forgotten everything.
And I studied in parallel with him myself.
but and this is the first I've heard of this.
- What?
- You never said the stupidest thing in your life.
- And you study psychology at Cambridge!
- You think Matt would have gotten a tattoo:
"I made out with Max in high school.
Never forgot!"
- Idiots.
- Sir. this is the most
beautiful in my life. Thank you!
- Frank. you're like that janitor in college.
that solves unsolvable at night
math problems.
- And that he found the binomial theorem. Let's go!
- Our Frank - Good Will Hunting. That
studied all the books in the library.
- I might be crazy.
but my brain is fine.
- Okay. genius. a little modesty.
- Come on.
- Get out of my eyes. you freaks!
- All right. let's go.
Ready?
Then
four. three. two. one. Action.
- Max? Max. are you asleep?
- Do you need anything?
- I'm looking for Rivette.
- Rivets?
- Yeah.
- You're lost. young man!
Want me to give you a ride in my car?
- Are you crazy to swim so far away?
- Damn it. I'm lost.
- Why did you go in the first place?
- You all right. Matt?
Twelve days
before we leave for Australia.
- Your father can be proud of you.
I even took the liberty of writing
a text message to Mr. Ruiz
to inform him of his son's achievements.
Of course. I shouldn't like running
too much but
your work is very impressive.
I don't think we need to give an exact date in the near future...
let's just say - in the near future.
So. I'm thinking
empower you
within the company.
And as I like to say: a chair
with a view of Montreal!
Well. what do you say?
- No. I understand. I. of course...
Of course I'm very happy to hear that.
- You know. Matt.
- No. no. Gilles. I get it.
- Say no more!
At your age it's enough
natural to doubt yourself.
You experiment.
you try new things.
One day you wake up and - oops!
You realize you're stuck in a swamp.
Yes. in my life I'm used to seeing
people engaged in the same things over and over again
who find out they have
I need something else entirely.
So let's forget about the promotion
for a while and get back to the Thompson case.
Where is he? Ah. here. This morning
I talked to the lady...
What was her name? God. I always get confused
names. Ma'am. ma'am. ma'am...
Ma'am.
Just a moment. where did I put it?
Ah. here.
- What are you doing?
- I cook pasta.  Just the way you like it.
- Your brother hasn't been in touch?
- You still like pasta?
You liked it last time.
- Yeah.
- This little fucker
he's not answering his phone.
I don't know why.
- No need to stick to the cigarette.
you barely open your eyes.
Well. yeah.
- What are you doing?
Well.
- Stop playing games. Give it to me.
- I'm seeing Aunt Jeanette tomorrow.
- That's lucky.
- He's almost retired.
He can take care of you
while I'm gone.
- I don't want to see her hysterical.
I'm not an invalid!
- Someone has to deal with the paperwork.
the groceries. the money. He must be your guardian.
And he will.
- I beg your pardon?
- You know you need someone
to take a look at you.
- I don't need anyone! When is
that you'll finally figure it out?
I don't need you. her. anyone!
- Calm down.
I don't want to hear anything.
- I say what I want! This is my house!
- But I pay the bills.
- With my money!
You steal my money. then you come here and
you shit on me.
- The money. you say? I really can trust you.
about you for the money?
- You got me here. you understand?
Show off your power like an unfinished dictator!
I don't want to see you!
- I'll come back when you've calmed down.
- Thank God your brother doesn't have to see you.
Do you know how you treat me? Do you?
- Sir. don't start that again!
- Do you know?
- He knows everything and for a long time!
- Well yes. of course!
- I'm tired of arguing endlessly
with you on this!
- All you do is lie to me.
- I'm not lying! All right. that's enough! Not
I can take it anymore! We're trying to help you!
- And I don't need your help!
I saw her in the coffin. okay?
- I don't need your help or your money!
- Yeah. you would have left a lot sooner.
Without me. you'd have ended up on the street!
Covered in garbage!
- Go to hell!
- Get the hell out of here.
- I missed you over the weekend. Were you bored?
- "Bored" is not the right word.
- God! At least have mercy on my ribs!
Did you buy the wine?
- Wine?
- Go to Martin's.
- I completely forgot. Was that today?
- It doesn't matter. Go get in the shower.
I'm gonna run to the store.
- Will Max be there?
- I don't know. Ask him.
What happened? Did you have a fight?
- No. just asking.
- Okay. go take a shower.
- Hi. how are you?
Hey. Julien. it's me. How are you?
- Yes. everything seems to be going well.
- Why are you speaking English?
Aha. I'm fucking with you. This is Jules.
leave a message after the tone.
- Hey. Julien. it's me.
Cool. I didn't realize right away
that this was your answering machine.
Listen. I left Mom's right now.
I think you should know that it's six months
which consumes nothing
so you could say
that things are going well.
I don't know in general whether
you have plans for the weekend
it's Mom's birthday.
we can arrange a dinner
or go to a restaurant.
Sure. from New Heaven to Montreal
is a very long distance
but I'm sure he'd be very happy
to see you.
- Be careful with that phone. you moron!
- I don't understand. Is he faking it?
- I bet his English-speaking comrades
aren't half as good as him.
- He plays in a jazz band.
I mean he was playing. He didn't like it. did he. Marco?
- Mom. you asked me to play
and now you won't shut up!
- Oh. you're my God. Forgive us. Amadeus.
We'll sit here in silence like rats.
- Like rats!
- What did you do in the jazz band?
- I have no idea.
- I'm hearing everything.
- Bye!
- Here are the stragglers!
- Late!
Sarah had nothing to do with it. I'm sure of it.
How are you. honey?
- Well. for the first 20 years of my life...
you were always the one who was late.
and now that I live alone
you always arrive on time!
- He's right. Francine.
- You know. Colette Kostopulos doesn't...
I expected such betrayal from you!
- Who am I playing for?
- Look. you're all dirty.
- This is my new look.
- I like it.
- There's a clock on the wall.
Why are you looking at your hand?
- And why did you get beat on your ass with a white hood?
- On the head. not the ass.
- Don't move.
- It burns!
- That's normal.
- What will you do in Australia if you find yourself
with a bloody forehead?
- All right. that's enough.
- They didn't do anything to me.
It's not slow. I fell.
I tripped on the street.
- What are you gonna do there?
- You mean in general
or day to day?
- Both of them.
- I'll look for a job. what else.
- You already have a job here.
Do you feel bad at the bar with me?
And with this jacket covered in blood.
Drop it. at least.
Get something out of Eric's clothes.
- Tell me. do you have plans
for Friday night?
- I don't know. I'll work for Caro.
she's leaving at midnight.
- It's just that Sharif my friend
from a party.
We're all going.
- Is that an invitation or a date?
- No. I'm looking for someone to give me
a ride. Yes: a date.
- You're asking me to spend an evening
in the company of drunks who make a mess
for stupid puns?
- Well. generally. yes. Is that interesting to you?
- Not really? All right. I'm coming.
- This is stupid!
- How was I supposed to know?
Jean-Marc said to me. "I have a new boss.
She's from Jamaica.
we call her 'Ilsa the wolf' and she's always
dressed like a nun"
I'll alert the guests and Jocelyn.
coming with a new girl.
A tall. refined girl.
- Legs coming out of the ears.
I start talking:
"Jean-Marc's boss lady dresses
like a nun
wants to appear holier than the pope."
- And that was her!
- That was her!
- They have to save us!
Lock it somewhere and throw away the key!
- I'm telling you!
Turns out it wasn't
Jocelyn's new girlfriend
It was her. Ilsa the wolf!
- Nightmare.
- They came together.
she sat down and listened to everything!
From Jamaica - what the hell?
I've gotten redder than she has.
She was white as milk!
- It's true!
- Tell him! You saw it!
- Erica was given such a task.
- She did?
- Indeed! A short film about "who am I?"
- Jesus. Erica. you have
really a talent!
- Listen. can you keep it down?
- Yes. otherwise we'll skip the whole dialogue.
- Are those sunflowers?
- No. daisies.
- Well. yeah. sure.
- Once again this non-binary genre crap.
- Die.
- Then why the sexual characteristics?
Don't they decide anything?
LIMBO.
- Well done.
Erica Rivette movie.
- Very good!
- What a great job. Erica!
- Type we don't have any sound yet
no coloring and pencils yet
he didn't finish the credits. but...
- Well done. Erica. congratulations.
A very nice short.
And so touching!
I was literally captured!
- Erica. my hat's off to you.
All right. nothing to say about work.
I don't know about you guys.
but it gave me a fever.
- I'm so proud of you. my daughter!
You're really talented.
You need to believe in yourself more.
- Yes. the talent to put 'like' five times in a sentence
by six words.
- Shut up. empty head.
- Erika! Marc Antoine. be
more polite to your sister.
- You didn't tell me you played
in Erica's movie. Bravo!
- I didn't think anyone saw that.
- I really liked it.
- Is everything all right?
- Yeah. it's fine.
- Have you been smoking?
- Yes. I have.
- It's a metaphor.
- Yes. but it turned out to be very sensual.
- Yes. very. And this color.
a bright red as a
tomato.
Very impressive.
- There's something about Almodovar!
Sí. señorita. good. I really
loved it!
A sensual short.
- Okay. who wants lemonade?
I'm gonna go get some.
- I do.
- I'll help you.
- Don't go. You're the birthday girl today.
- Well. if you insist.
- How quickly our children have grown up so quickly!
- These two have already received everything they could.
- Yes. and our dear Max. What a life.
- I know.
- Matt. why didn't you tell me anything?
Such a wonderful film!
- So you got famous. Matt!
- You could have warned me.
What. it was impossible to wait?
- I haven't been able to reach you.
- Listen. your scene lasts a minute.
I can put more if you want.
- You didn't like it?
You're wonderful there!
- I just didn't expect
that there was going to be this big premiere.
- All right. that's enough. Because a grand premiere.
we are among ourselves.
- Erica is so proud of her movie.
Isn't she. honey?
- You were superb. really.
- Very very. very good.
- I'm not saying it's bad. Erica.
but...
- You agreed!
It's showbiz.
- First of all. I disagreed.
You tell him. why are you sitting down?
- There's nothing to explain. dear.
- Don't call me dear. Sorry. I...
- Colette Kostopoulos!
Did you forget about our lemonade?
- Now!
- Jesus. Martin.
what do you have in this teapot?
- Yeah. what?
- What?
- Colette. this is not a kettle!
It's a humidifier!
Here's the kettle.
- Do you mind if I put on some music?
So it fits the situation perfectly.
- Can I come to the bachelorette party tomorrow?
- Sure. Matt. it's your house.
Did you ask your mom
what to bring on Friday?
- What?
- Friday. What to bring?
- Why. what's happening Friday?
- From a garden party.
- A garden party?
Why didn't anyone tell me?
- You forgot.
Everyone's partying now.
- And why is that?
Sarah. Why?
- To say goodbye to Max before he leaves.
- Oh. yeah. sure. How to forget.
Yeah. yeah.
Yeah. yeah. I'll ask my mother.
- We won't smoke on the street. but we don't have to.
turn it into a gas chamber. I'll open the window.
Are you worried? It's still such a trip.
- No.
- Are you seeing anyone now?
- What about you?
- Well. you make me laugh.
This train was a long time ago. my boy.
- Why? You're very beautiful.
- It's true. you are beautiful.
- Thank you.
You've always been able to say things
pleasant. That's your whole problem.
They rarely trust good guys.
I don't know why.
but that's what happened. That's too bad.
But I'm sure you'll find someone.
- So. look.
Here are all the documents.
- Yes. it is.
- Next week's appointments.
You have to go one more time
by the notary
to make you
officially a substitute tuteur.
- Substitute...
How do you say that? In a word?
- Substitutetuteur. A guardian.
- Sir. language can be broken.
Okay. I got time for one more cigarette.
Substitute tuteur.
Sorry. I don't know what the fuck they say in French.
go to feeling)
Come on. let me see.
- Yes. what's here.
- Here. come on.
- Look. It's just a bunch of cards.
Your duties are explained here.
he says you'll be responsible for his money
and so on.
Damn it! Financial situation.
banking information.
- Yeah. what else?
- He says you'll take responsibility
for his money.
In general for everything. In short.
you'll take care of her.
- However. sometimes it's not easy.
- Yeah.
What's that on your forehead?
- No big deal.
You should see what I did
to the other.
- Small but well put. eh boy?
Oh God. the pause
it's almost over.
Guardians who don't watch the hours.
I don't want to be late for my
last day of work.
Didn't I forget anything?
I always forget something.
- Cigarettes.
- Yes. there are papers.
All right. come on. I'm late.
Run to your favorite job. Ginette!
- He's coming to us next week
a young boy
by the Hartley-Himelstein company.
- Yeah. from Toronto.
- Exactly. It's called... Sir.
It's on the tip of my tongue.
Ah McAfee! Mr. McAfee.
Coming on Friday
to talk. explore. evaluate
what we do here.
In short. the activity is simple: take him to some
Let him enjoy himself.
Restaurants. clubs. good pubs...
Cappuccino at McCafe's.
In general. do everything in a week
invited his bosses
to meet us.
In the envelope you'll find all the information.
Arrival time. flight number.
name of the hotel.
But where is he? I'm counting on
about you. Matt.
- Attention!
- What would I do without you?
One week before departure.
- Rivette's mother changes the dryer...
in the country house.
Rivette said he's selling the old one.
but I think he's gonna give it away.
Lord. give me strength.
- You have a strong forehead.
Even the remote is broken.
I didn't mean to hit you on the head.
Have you eaten?
Have you had breakfast?
- Yes. I ate.
- Answer when I ask.
I don't know how to read thoughts.
- I said yes. I had breakfast.
What else?
- And where do you plan to have lunch?
I can bake a savoury pie.
Do you remember when you and your brother
you were coming home from school?
- You could smell the cake through the door.
- Yes. I remember. I was there too.
The cake must rise.
And it serves ham. broccoli.
I'm not buying them.
So no cake.
Why all this?
- I wanted to do something to please you.
Or not?
Maybe at least try?
- You don't have to do
a cake. I'm not the Princess of Monaco.
- You're funny.
- Mr. McAfee? Mr. McAfee!
Damn it! Mr. McAfee! Mr. McAfee!
McAfee. it's Matt. I'm sorry.
- What do you want?
- It's Matt. I'm sorry. I'm. uh...
- So what?
- It's Matt.
- Sorry. man. I'm just kidding.
- You. uh...
- Yeah. I saw you. Matt. right?
- Yeah. it was fun.
- No. it's not funny. It's just that
they gave me some shitty vodka on the train...
and ruined my mood.
Nice to meet you.
Look. I'm starving.
The food was disgusting.
I almost threw up.
Wait. where am I going?
Do you know where we're going?
Well. sure. it's your town!
Where we're going.
- Towards that direction.
- There? Allonz-y.
Am I saying that right? Allonz-y?
- Yeah. allonz-y.
- Allonz-y.
- I suck at French. but
I can understand a few words.
- That's normal.
- Okay. Allonz-y!
- Good?
- Yes. it's good.
- How am I supposed to figure it out
- Delicious. It's okay. Delicious.
Tell me. by any chance... I've been trying to call...
Julien and I left him a message
on the answering machine
Yesterday. Didn't you hear the greeting
did you put it on voicemail?
He recorded a new one. I mean.
that you can feel it
when it goes to voicemail.
- I've heard what you're saying.
- Yes. you did.
I haven't called him in a long time. He
he never calls me back.
- Whatever.
I thought you might
pull it up.
- His answering machine?
- He leaves every time they call him.
It's ringing. But he never answers.
- Hi. how are you?
Yeah. everything looks good.
- I don't understand English.
- Wait. now. in a little while.
- It's fashionable now. all young people
who speak English.
- Yeah. listen.
Okay. that's all.
The funny thing is. you think
he answered and he's talking to you. but...
it's actually his answering machine.
- Give me back my money.
Before you leave. Give me back my money.
I've changed. I'm normal.
I'm better.
Where are you going? Where are you going?
- Max!
- What the hell am I doing here?
- All right. stop. Sit down.  Let's talk
like two adults.
- Please. Sit down for a minute. You can't constantly get pissed off about this.
- The savoury pie. you say?
Low blow!
I'm not giving you the money. do you understand?
Over my dead body.
-What the hell? -What the hell?
- Why are you so stubborn?
- Calm down! Calm down. I said!
Calm down. okay?
Calm down
I hate you.
- Go. hide! What else can you do?
Little Max hiding in the closet!
- Shut up!
- Shut up! You shut up.
Well. how's the baby?
Is it crying?
He started our treasure?
- And so for a lifetime. These damn
bitches make me twitch my nose.
All right. not bitches. These days you have to
be delicate.
I mean girls who
they pose as if they feel like God.
just because they're studying.
you know. art history.
Sir. how much time I've lost with them.
who would have known!
They just want to show off.
Maybe they're normal girls. but who knows.
In short. I now have
a girlfriend. We are engaged. then.
- Congratulations!
- Yes. thank you. That's something to be
proud of themselves.
I remember when I was a kid. I used to look at the ring...
on my father's finger
and I thought. "man. I want that."
Anxious to grow up
and to wear a ring.
- So you live in Montreal?
- Yes. I do.
- I rarely come here. but the fillies that you have here
are a sight for sore eyes.
Every time McGill sends an intern.
They're lustful. energetic.
confident brunettes.
Well. just turn off the lights!
Matt. am I boring you? Tell me honestly.
- No no. it's not you. It's me.
- We can speak French.
if it's easier for you.
- I'm a little worried because I'm
late for something.
- Are you late? Where to?
- To say hello to a friend of mine.
- Is he leaving?
- Yes. for two years.
- Are you close as friends?
Very. very close?
- No. I wouldn't say that.
Only my mother arranges this
party
you know how it is...
- Annoying?
- Annoying.
- My poor boy. Yes. I'm joking.
May I?
- I'll pay for it.
- All right. he's paying.
So. in the garage there are vegetables - in the fridge there is cheese. crab sauce there is.
It's all there.
Next time write it more
baby. Francine Lamy!
I made you meat pies.
Max!
- I know. Francine. Thank you!
That wasn't necessary.
- Stop talking nonsense. please.
- No. I mean it.
- To think you'll find these things in Sydney (?)
In Oceania the meat pies
they don't grow on trees!
- In Oceania? Even better in southern Indochina. Francine!
- Well. sure. Ladies and gentlemen.
Rivets is getting smart!
- If you want I can run to the store and
bring you a couple of bottles of bourbon!
- Calm down a little bit. princess.
- How interesting you are.
- Come here princess. and help me!
When you stop talking nonsense.
life will have gone on!
Come on. come on. let's go!
- I'll be there in two minutes.
- Sir. how long I've been held up.
You've been late for an hour and you're whining at the door.
what did you bring?
Your father could invent
better excuses.
-I've been texting you.
Is this the end of matriarchy?
The matriarch is in the kitchen today.
I don't have time for texting!
- Why are you buying a cell phone
you forget around the room?
- A representative of the generation of
Internet. everybody be quiet!
- Oh. you're here!
- Yeah. I didn't wait.
- Is everything all right?
- I got held up by this guy in Toronto.
I couldn't go anywhere.
- "I couldn't go anywhere." it's the same one.
what to say "I'm not to blame"
where there's one. there's the other.
A family history.
- Mom. come on.
- Max has been biting his nails for an hour.
- That's his problem. He can talk. he's got a tongue.
- He's not comfortable here without you!
- Did you bring him the letter of recommendation?
Your father's.
- What letter?
- All right. that's enough!
- He needs to get a job at
Sydney. the bosses are asking for recommendations.
- I know. but it's not my fault.
- Ah! "It's not my fault."
- "Ah!"
- On the third attempt I go personally
to this collection centre
and at noon the package is ready
to be sent. I saw it!
- Please. in the kitchen. we must keep this secret.
Thank you.
- Yes yes. it's a secret for everyone.
We need to talk about a book
which is called "The Secret."
- I wonder if there's any switch
which may disable
your chatter.
- All right. then.
- What should we do?
- Come here. Matthias!
- Aha! Whisper!
- So. you talk first. make a little speech.
Matt. Matt.
- Okay. I'll make this speech. Then what?
- A little speech. then the
let's get a sweater.
- First the sweater. because the iPad cost
more. Well. you got it.
- And after the presents there will be a cake
with berries!
- What other fruits are there?
- Strawberries. raspberries. blackberries.
- What's not clear to you about the words "berries"?
All right. let's go!
- They crashed.
- Come on.
- I'm telling you. crash.
- Attention. please!
Shut up. guys!
You. of course. are no longer a child but you are still
my favorite guy.
And you too. my dear Sarah.
Dear Maxime. I know I don't
you like long speeches.
- And yet...
- But you don't have a choice.
You go and leave us
for two years.
So Matt wants to tell you something
to say goodbye
- Max. Max.
I wouldn't want to.
I know you don't like it...
have every look
so I'll try to keep it short.
I'm sorry. I probably should have sketched
something in advance.
- Come on. come on!
- It will be very strange and unusual to be
here without you.
but at the same time...
Oh. my goodness. how can I say this.
We're gonna miss you so much. but I know...
that you'll come back to us
like a different person.
With a new strength. a new energy.
And I'm sure.
I'm sure there. in those faraway lands.
a lot of interesting discoveries await you.
That will enrich your world. So there!
Of course we'll miss you.
I think I have the right to speak
on behalf of everyone. For Max!
- I thought you were more eloquent.
- Well. then. for Max!
- For Max!
- Max!
- Cheers. Max.
- For Max!
- And now presents. presents. presents!
- How many times do I have to say it.
I hate presents!
- Delicious. as always!
Especially the meat pies.
- See you again
before you leave on Wednesday?
- Yeah. I'm leaving Friday.
- Really?
- Yes. Friday.
I'll come back for a suitcase.
And why did you decide that on Wednesday?
Nonsense. You shouldn't spend money.
- Come on. stop it.
- Don't be silly!
And anyway. this is from all of us.
- Max. can I send
the GPS coordinates to Sharif?
- I left my phone in the car.
- What are you talking about? Did I hear right?
Benjamin Sharif?
- No. Omar Sharif. the actor who died.
We're on our way to see him.
- Yes. Francine. your beautiful Sharif.
favorite.
- If I could then I'd go with you.
- What? Give it a chance.
- Is he still studying. our Benjamin?
When will you become a teacher?
- He's already giving lessons.
- Stop it. I wasn't born yesterday. What was your diploma?
- Here. call him and ask him.
- Don't tempt me. However. it's much more
nice by Alain Delon
and Peter Sellers
With that Moroccan charm.
I've always been fascinated. (?)
Like Matt's dad. for example.
wonderful Portuguese.
wine connoisseur and great conversationalist. but it wasn't enough.
- Guys. I have to say goodbye.
- What? You're not going to Sharif's?
- Poor Benjamin boy!
- Seriously. I'm too tired today.
- I thought you were going.
- Okay. but you know what I think.
- And I've already told Felish Mokett that you're going to play
in his student project.
- Screw you.
- You've got to be kidding me. Relax. Matt.
- I don't understand.
why don't you go?
- The week has been difficult.
- Matt. can I talk to you for a second?
- Max. I'll see you another time?
- Oh. sure.
- We'll be in touch.
- Matt!
- Look. I can take you there
and take a cab back.
- Sarah. it's not that. It's just that
I don't want to go. I'm tired.
- Matt. shut up please. two minutes.
Listen to me.
- It's only 7:30.
You're not a hundred years old.
You took your partner to lunch.
you didn't translate "War and Peace"!
- All right. I'll go...
- I'll wait for you in the car.
- I don't have to go to Bordeaux. Bring me
in Longueuil. stupid!
- What are you doing. huh?
- I'm taking these stupid clothes off!
I hate them.
I only put them on to please
to Francine.
- Tell that to the guy with the funny guys...
on T-shirts.
- Leave me alone. I. at least. don't dress
like a faggot.
- Who's the faggot?
- Frank. send her back.
- Who. me?
- Well. yeah. you Frank. Back off. I said.
No. you're running it.
- Damn. it's so hard to film
a station?
- Get off me. Brass!
- Your hands are crooked!
- Ah. this is the same song. I'm sorry.
- This one's from when we got high on mushrooms and we got
sitting around watching "The Barbarian Invasions"?
- That's right! And then we went
out of town until morning. talking about vulgarity.
- And then we had a contest to see who would have
invented a 12-letter adjective!
- I'm trying. don't pull me!
- Damn. we're gonna miss him now!
- At some point. I realized
that I'm past the jokes and the songs.
I'm going to see him today.
but in general. I want to pass
more time with you.
We have to somehow get the
distance from this company.
- I don't mean all of them. of course.
But one or two.
- You plan things ahead of time?
These things usually happen by themselves.
- Yes. but...
- I understand you had some business
but only half an hour with friends
is such an unbearable burden for you?
And I know that your mom sometimes
is not easy to sustain
I know. but you have to have
more tact. Matt.
Otherwise. I don't know who could be next.
- Yes. but...
- Let me finish. Matt!
This speech you gave
for Max today
You think I made someone happy?
And it didn't occur to you
that Matt might take offense to.
if you don't go with them?
And I don't... You're leaving now?
- Yes. but...
- Why do you always have to think only of yourself?
- And what. I'm supposed to think about Max all the time?
Why are you telling me
this. now?
What. am I under investigation?
This is all because of the movie. right?
I knew it. that's why
damn movie.
Am I right?
Sarah! Sarah!
- Matt. I don't understand what
you're saying!
- Stop pretending. Have you seen this
Erika's crappy movie!
Sarah. he means nothing to me!
We had a discussion.
I didn't even want to do it! Do you understand?
So let's forget about it
of everything else.
- Now we turn right?
- Yes.
Have fun.
- Yeah. let's go.
All right then. everybody be quiet.
while I explain the rules.
- Guys!
- Sharif. I know it's your house. but be quiet.
- A toast to ten years of friendship.
- It doesn't matter. So. first shift.
Say what you want but avoid
derivative words.
- What words do you derive from that?
- Well. for example. "housewife - housewife".
"lover-lover" and so on.
Round two: Just one word.
- Brass. now you got one in the forehead.
- Why are you bothering me?
- Round three: pantomime. It doesn't matter
there must not be a single sound. Do you understand. Brass?
Pantomime! How long do we do
30 or 45 seconds?
- Make it 30.
- 45!
- All right. 45! Unbreakable.
Then let's get started. ladies and gentlemen!
- Runner.
- I know. Usain Bolt!
- God. Matt. I'm scared of you.
- Shut up! It's my turn now!
- Rivett. Rivette. mix them up!
- It's his fault!
- And I didn't hear it.
- I don't understand why you're getting so upset.
- You didn't guess.
- Owens? Jesse Owens!
- It's not fair! You can't count!
- I said "Jesse Owens"!
Jesse Owens is not a legendary runner.
for you?
- Yeah.
- Rivets time. Put the time.
- Sir. now.
- Come on. Sharif!
- Get ready.
- Three. two. one. let's go!
- So the throne. the throne.
- Game of Thrones?
- You haven't given a word!
- Jon Snow! Jon Snow!
- Jon Snow! Yes!
- Rivets. stop the game! Rivets!
- Max. What did you tell him?
- To who? Rivette?
- Don't look so innocent.
You said something in his ear
less than ten seconds ago.
- He told me about Jesse Owens.
- Well. yeah.
- Really? And what did you say?
- What's the difference?
The round wins back.
- So. guys.
let's have some fun.
- I'm not talking to you. Max!
- Can I at least finish my round?
- Shut up! Sit down and count
up to ten. Max!
- I don't understand one thing.
Are you okay. Matt?
- Yeah. yeah. but what? I know.
Did you tell Rivette which
word you would have said later.
That's it? All right. go to hell.
- Wait a minute.
- No. it's okay.
- Conversation a bit
shitty. honestly.
- I don't know. Don't go.
- Nonsense.
- May I? I want to add
ten points to us.
to compensate
the fact that you're croaking.
All in agreement? Ten points.
- Matt. Matt. Take it easy.
- I'm calm as an elephant!
Or is ten points too many?
Make it five. Five. okay?
All right. at least three.
- What are you talking about?
- What's tormenting you?
What's the matter with you?
- No problem. Just not
I like it when people cheat.
- All right. that's enough!
I didn't cheat. okay?
You're acting like a
complete lunatic. Matt.
- What? Am I crazy? Sorry. but my mind is right
and my memory is bright.
- If you're going to continue
with that attitude. you better go home.
- You probably don't understand
what cheating means. Frank.
- Your intellectual level
stops a little earlier.
- Guys. it's just a game!
What are you guys. really?
- Frank. Frank. Take it easy.
- Frank. don't.
No. Frank.
- Guys. I'm serious.
- Frank.
Frank.
- You're embarrassing yourself. Matt.
Go home.
- Uh. what are you doing?
- Frank! Frank! Look at me.
- That's enough. Let him go.
- Do as the scarred man tells you.
- To hell with these damn games!
- We can go there.
- Well. we can. but what's the point?
- Only everyone on the planet is
gone. except you.
- Who I see. Mad Matt.
Bad number two.
- And who's number one?
- Obviously me.
Where's that damn lighter?
- Frank.
- I don't know. Matt.
- I must rise to your level
exclusive? What do you think?
- Frank. no. I want to apologize.
Seriously. I'm sorry.
- Come on. I'm kidding.
Forget it. bro.
- How touching.
I'm simply in tears!
They fight. they fight. but
they still love each other!
- Are you jealous? Do you want to get
cuddle with me?
- Of course he's jealous.
He told me so himself!
- All right. all right! Let me go!
- Come on. ask me nicely!
- Let me go!
Let me go. you idiot!
- All right. let him go.
Monsieur Francis!
- There you go.
- Whose turn is it?
- Brass. Brass. It's your turn.
- Come on.
He's hiding his ace in the hole.
- Lucky. You got a good card.
- Rivets. go on.
- Good. because I'm here.
- Look. enough. huh?
Go somewhere in the living room
watching TV.
I can't concentrate.
with you breathing in my ear.
- Rivets. we're waiting.
- Matt.
- Well. so what?
- Come on. don't stop.
- Well. you're an idiot! Is that really so hard?
Didn't you notice the seven?
- Why are you laughing?
- Oh. nothing.
And that's it!
- Is that your mother's sauce?
- Don't talk about my mother's sauce
in that tone.
- Because what am I saying? It's delicious.
- It sure is.
- Friends should never
discuss religion.
of money and their mothers.
And especially their sauce.
- Whose turn is it?
- You wouldn't have liked it if I
I was sticking to your mother's sauce.
- That's enough.
- I don't understand. This isn't us.
- Matt.
Damn it.
I didn't leave on Friday.
I was just leaving Friday.
but I'm leaving on Sunday.
- Damn it!
- I want to spend a weekend
together.
To talk.
We need to talk.
I want to understand.
Matt.
- Hello?
Great!
- I think you're one of
those who like vodka.
- Yeah. it's good.
- Is it?
- Damn it. I really didn't think
you would have come. Damn.
Come on. the table over there.
- Here. I'll be honest:
even about Islam. I don't have to discuss it so often.
in our office
or on the subject of monogamy and fidelity.
Hey. Miss. Miss. Miss.
Can we get two shots of vodka?
Stop. stop. stop. You like Sour-Puss?
- I. uh...
- Come on. let's try it. Two glasses of
Sour-Puss. please.
It's very strange. I know.
It's so hot in here! Is it?
- So. on the subject of fidelity.
All our social behaviors
were built on possession.
This can be applied to people.
But we are not people. We are animals.
- Am I... an animal?
- Indeed! You're a lion or a dog.
or God knows... a tiger.
But so are women.
We're all animals!
That's why marriages fail.
Over time we realize that
nobody else owns anybody else.
We live next door to each other
to others until
one does not hear the call
and it goes on.
up and down stairs
of the animal kingdom.
- What's your name?
- What?
- You didn't tell me your name.
- Didn't I?
- No.
- Kevin. Kev for short.
- Kev. All right.
- Yeah.
- Kevin.
Eve of departure.
- Hi. Max!
- Are you still wearing that
beautiful jacket I gave you.
- Look at all this garbage.
- Lord. help me. Just a moment.
I'll put everything back.
That's it. Well. the physical activities
we've completed them for today.
- You're wonderful. Francine.
Really. thank you so much.
- Don't be silly.
- Listen.
- Yes?
- I. uh...
- Where are you going in such a hurry. mister?
Do you want an iced tea?
Of course. with the longest season now
It's colder. but it's okay.
- I've got a late shift at work anyway. so...
- How about a nice big glass of water?
You drink enough water. Max?
Do you even like water?
Well. of course. honey.
- Francine. would you mind giving me...
Thank you... give me the phone number.
of your ex-husband. Ronaldo.
I really need
your letter of recommendation.
- Yes?
- I worked with Mr. Ruiz
last summer and I asked Matt
if you could ask your father
a letter of recommendation.
- Well. sure. What about Matt?
Did he do as you asked?
- Yeah. I reminded him.
a couple of times. but it seems like...
I know you asked him to write me
a letter. but...
- I'm looking for his phone number.
It's got to be here somewhere.
One minute. Ronaldo.
Wait a minute. Sir.
with this little handwriting of mine!
And you didn't ask Matt?
Max?
He should be upstairs.
Wait. I got it.
Thanks. Francine.
Our farm with Max
Matt and Max's farm.
Matthias. 7 years.
Damn it.
- Homeowners.
I never contacted my client
for this.
- Hello. this is Maxime Leduc.
I'm a friend of Matt Ruiz's.
He told me
to call his father. Mr. Ruiz.
that you work with. and
to ask him for a letter of recommendation
who was supposed to write for me.
The thing is. I'm leaving for Australia.
and I really need this letter.
Please call me at this number:
514-555-16-14.
Thank you very much and have a good day.
- Are you going to Australia?
- Yes. I am.
- Wow. There's nice beaches there.
but these people won't understand
one word of what you say.
- Okay.
- Well. who knows in advance?
- Is everything okay?
- Yeah. I finished cleaning up here...
Adessp I'm going to close the case.
- Okay. I'm gonna run and get a coffee in the meantime.
and then we'll take you to the airport.
- All right.
- Hello?
- Hello. Is this Maxime LeDuc?
- Yeah. that's me.
- I'm calling from Mr. Ruiz's office in Chicago.
- Yeah.
- I got your message about
the letter of recommendation.
- Yeah. so?
- Mr. Ruiz actually
wrote this letter.
and I sent it three weeks ago.
to your son. Matt.
by e-mail.
- Hello?
Hello?
- Yeah. yeah.
- Why didn't you give it to me?
- I'm afraid you'll have to ask him.
If you want I can send you
a copy via e-ever.
- Mr. LeDuc?
- Yes. sorry.
I'll give you my e-mail.
Can you write?
- Yes. go ahead.
- Maxime
Duc.
Hotmail Snail
Point
Com.
- Yes. of course. Com.
Good. I'll send it to you today.
Thank you.
- Have a good day.
- You. too.